Last class we use SauceLabs for Remote Computers.
Companies that provide Remote computers-->Sauce Labs, Browser Stack.But the issue with these is
they are 3rd party tools , it requires our Web Application to be exposed in thier platform.In many companies 
they will not agree to use these tools for security reasons, in such cases we should set Selenium Grid.
In Selenium Grid we have 2 types of system:
1. local system--> for Dev & Test:In local We require:
	a. JDK
	b. Eclipse
	c. selenium jar
	d. TestNG
	e. automation script
    f. browser
	g. web app
	
	Note:If we use Selenium Grid, Browser and Web Application will be in Remote System.

2. remote system--> only for execution: In Remote system We require:
	a. JDK
	b. selenium jar
	c. browser
	d. web app
	
To go selenium website:selenium.dev

Note: coz Browser stack and SauceLabs are not good for security reasons and we cant purchase many laptops, sir showed steps how to do it in our own Laptop(
how to create remote compueter in our own laptop),but in reality it will be done in different Computer.

Eclipse-Local System.
Command Prompt represents Remote System :remote folder
In reality, eclipse will be in different computer and Command Prompt(Remote System ) will be in different computer. 

Q)How do you check in the remote computer Java is installed or not?
A) java -version


To create Local system on our own in our Local system-->Steps to setup selenium grid:
1. In remote system create a folder called remote.
2. copy paste selenium jar file(selenium jar file is present in eclipse in "lib" folder.
3. open the cmd prompt(In windows-Go inside folder where jar file is present, click on the Address bar->type cmd-->enter)
Note:Before entering below command, make sure cmd prompt is in remote directory
To change directory->use "cd" command.
4. In cmd prompt-->execute--> java -jar selenium-server-4.25.0.jar standalone(Press Tab for AutoCompletion-->used to start 
	selenium server in standalone mode.
5. After it runs fully,it will display a message "Started Selenium Standalone",
	at the end it will also display selenium grid URL--> http://192.168.29.187:4444(click on this URL it will
	open Selenium Website)or (copy the URL and paste it in Browser).
7. Right click-->Run As-->Java Application
8.Request will be sent to command prompt-->Browser will open.
9.This means Selenium Grid will be running in Remote computer.
Note: Never close Terminal, if u close Terminal, Grid will be shut down.
10.After terminating, Grid will be running(see Selenium Grid) but sessions will be closed.
The purpose of above steps is to check whether Grid is working or not.

Note: In free version of SauceLabs, at a time it allows only one Remote system to run.
In paid version, we can use many Remote systems.


When the new version of selenium is released, we would never come to know untill
we go to seleniumm.dev and check in downloads for selenium jar file.
And if we know we have to download jar file , We have to copy paste it in "lib" folder of project and add it to build path
and remove the older version.everything we need to do manually.
Q)Is there a way we can update the jar file automatically?
A)Yes, we have an option called MAVEN-It will automatically update the jar file.

Purpose of Maven: Keep updating the jar file.

we need to do it for every release.so we dont want to do this.We want these jar files to be updated automatically.


Maven
1. in Eclipse File->new --> maven project
2. select the check boc 'create simple project'
3. click Next
4. specify groupid and artifact id
	Note: In Maven, GroupID means Organisation name and
	artifact id will be our Project name.
5. Version is default
6. click finish

In Maven-->pom.xml--> project object model -->Used to Run Maven Project.
			TestNg.xml is used to run entire TestNG project.

In maven we have:src/main/java-->used for development.
				 src/test/java--> used for testing
				 
				  src/test/java--->Automation script code will be written here.
				  
				  src/test/resources-->Supporting file should be here.


Now, I want to add jar file in Maven-->Open POM.xml  
How to specify the jar file in Maven?
1. open pom.xml
	At the bottom , you will see tabs.
2. click on dependencies tab
3. click on add
4. specify group id, artifact id and version (Give details of the jarfile you want-
	example if you want selenium jar file then give details of selenium jar file)
	Note: a)To get the information of Selenium jar file-In Google-->search for-->Selenium Maven 
		  b)Click on Maven Repository(Offical Website of Maven)
		  c)Click on Selenium Java
		  d)Click on latest version  which is at the top
		  e)Scroll down, you will see POM.xml code
		  f)You need to put that code in our POM.xml file
		  h)You have to go to dependencies tab and manually type-Gruop Id, Artifact id, version
		  	from the POM.xml that you got in Maven Repository(Offical Website of Maven).
		  i)Click on OK
		  j)Save it.
		  k)After build is over(Right bottom corner)We will get one new option called
		  	Maven Dependecies.
		  L)Now if we go to our POM.xml there will changes added(Dependencies will be added)
		  H)Instead of doing this way, we can directly copy paste from offical website but we need toadd extra tag
		  called "<dependencies>"
5. click ok
6. save it

Note: Jar file will be under Maven Dependencies but it will be piece by piece.






















