How to execute Test2 only if Test1 is PASSED?
using dependsOnMethods

Interview Question:How to create a dependency in TestNG?
 Answer)using dependsOnMethods

Note: if Test1 is failed, then Test2 will be reported as SKIPPED


Question)Can we send data from testing suite(Testng.xml) to testing class(TestNG class)?
Answer)yes-> using parameter

Note:Once you use parameter,you cannot run TestNG class directly we will get error
If u use parameter, always Run Xml file 

If we use @optional("value") for method arg then if the parameter value is not specified it used optional value
i.e if parameter is not specified in xml file or you directlt try to execute it then it uses @optional("value")

Limitation of TestNG parameter is , it only supports String datatype.


How to run multiple scripts in parallel?
using parallel option available in TestNG-->Right click on Test class(.java class)
-->select "Convert to TestNG"-->In Parallel Mode-->Select "tests"(this is test block in xml file)

mode:(options in Parallel mode)
1.none
2.methods
3.classes
4.tests

---> Cross Browser testing / browser compatibility testing

Selenium Grid:Imagine, you have a test script that has to be run in different 
OS(Windows 11, windows12,Mac V8, Mac 9, Linux V9, Linus 10) with different Browser.
Then each time you need to install JDK, install eclipse , configure copy paste and run in all the machines and run it,which
is not feasible.So they came up with Selenium Grid, in Selenium Grid, we will
connect all the computers with selenium Grid, we dont copy paste the script in all machines,
script will be present in our local system, we just need to click run button
in local system, it will connect to all the remote systems(open the Browser in remote systems, enter the url).
It will execute the script in all remote systems and send back the result to 
Local System(one consolidated result).
But we don not have multiple computers to use selenium Grid, so we take these 
computers for rent.Renting companies like Browser stack and saucelabs provide devices for rent(virtual and real devices also).
Selenium is also installed in these devices,all u need to do is just give the url and click Run button.

What is the use of Selenium Grid?
Answer)We can execute the script on Remote Computer.


login to https://saucelabs.com
In saucelabs.com->login using gmailid->go to account-->Go to user setting-->scroll
down till Ondemand URL->copy the url and paste it in script. 


